# Diabetes-Predictor
Data science project that uses diabetes-related data to create a classification model

This project uses a dataset that contains various health markers that are related to whether a person will have diabetes or not. I first performed descriptive analysis by handling missing values in the data. For features with a small amount missing values, I deleted the rows that had NaN values. For other features with a larger quantity of missing values, I immuted the data by filling the missing values with the corresponding median. For the insulin data, almost 50% of the data was missing, so I created a secondary dataset with the insulin column entirely removed. In the primary dataset I simply filled the missing insulin values with the median. I wanted to see which dataset would perform better (with insulin and without insulin). Next, I created a variety of plots such as histograms, count plots, scatter plots, and a correlation matrix to better understand the data.

The next part of the project was for model building with machine learning algorithms. I split the two data frames into training and testing data, and I scaled the X part of the datasets using the Standard Scaler function. I then trained various model types with the training data and checked their performance agains the testing data. The performance of each model was judged by a classification report that contained a confusion matrix along with accuracy, precision, sensitivity, specificity, and area under curve (AUC) measurements. Based on the results, I determined that a Random Forest Model with insulin data is best suited to make the best predictions.
